Azure SignalR Service content rewrite (#2775)
dotnet/docs-aspire: docs/real-time/azure-signalr-scenario.md

                     .RunAsEmulator();

builder.AddProject<Projects.ApiService>("apiService")
       .WithReference(signalR)
       .WaitFor(signalR);

// After adding all resources, run the app...
```

In the preceding example, the `RunAsEmulator` method configures the Azure SignalR Service resource to run as an emulator. The emulator is based on the `mcr.microsoft.com/signalr/signalr-emulator:latest` container image. The emulator is started when the app host is run, and it will be stopped when the app host is stopped.

#### Azure SignalR Service modes

While the Azure SignalR Service emulator only supports the _Serverless_ mode, the Azure SignalR Service resource can be configured to use either of the following modes:

- <xref:Aspire.Hosting.ApplicationModel.AzureSignalRServiceMode.Default?displayProperty=nameWithType>
- <xref:Aspire.Hosting.ApplicationModel.AzureSignalRServiceMode.Serverless?displayProperty=nameWithType>

The _Default_ mode is the "default" configuration for Azure SignalR Service. Each mode has its own set of features and limitations. For more information, see [Azure SignalR Service modes](/azure/azure-signalr/concept-service-mode).

> > [!IMPORTANT]

Reviewer: Serverless example does not use `Microsoft.Azure.SignalR` in the app server side, it only uses Microsoft.Azure.SignalR.Management. `HubConnectionBuilder` is for the SignalR client. If you'd like a .NET SignalR client to connect, follow https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/signalr/dotnet-client?view=aspnetcore-9.0&tabs=visual-studio. SignalR client code keeps unchanged no matter if you are using self-host signalr or default mode Azure SignalR or serverless mode Azure SignalR. What SignalR client expects is a negotiate endpoint. Check here for details: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-signalr/signalr-concept-client-negotiation#how-can-you-add-a-client-negotiation-endpoint-in-serverless-mode In self-host signalr or default mode Azure SignalR, negotiate endpoint is implemented in the SDK, in serverless mode Azure SignalR, we need to expose the negotiate endpoint by ourselves:
```
app.MapPost("/negotiate", async () =>
{
    var negotiateResponse = await sampleHubContext.NegotiateAsync();

    return Results.Ok(negotiateResponse);
});
```

> > [!IMPORTANT]

Author: Yes, I understand the difference between the server project, and the client aspects of SignalR. I have a sample I wrote that defines an API project and a consuming Web project. The API project in this case, defines a `ChatHub` and the web project subscribes to hub methods and calls various hub methods.

If I understand correctly, you're saying that the `HubConnectionBuilder` in the web project won't need to change when using serverless mode. I don't think that is correct. In serverless mode, when I try to connect to a `/chathub` endpoint, it 404s. When I connecting to the base URL of the signalr emulator endpoint, it 404s. I cannot connect to the serverless mode, emulator at all when using a `HubConnectionBuilder` in .NET. That's the example I'm asking if you have available.

> > [!IMPORTANT]

Reviewer: get it, is it working now? I see you added the hub subpath

> The Azure SignalR Service emulator only works in _Serverless_ mode and the `AddNamedAzureSignalR` method doesn't support _Serverless_ mode.

> ## Client integration

Reviewer: we usually don't use "Client" to refer to the web app side when using Azure SignalR since there is a SignalR Client role

Author: I reworded this a bit.

---
title: .NET Aspire Azure SignalR Service integration
description: Learn how to integrate Azure SignalR Service with .NET Aspire.
ms.date: 03/18/2025
---

# .NET Aspire Azure SignalR Service integration

[!INCLUDE [includes-hosting](../includes/includes-hosting.md)]

[Azure SignalR Service](/azure/azure-signalr/signalr-overview) is a fully managed real-time messaging service that simplifies adding real-time web functionality to your applications. The .NET Aspire Azure SignalR Service integration enables you to easily provision, configure, and connect your .NET applications to Azure SignalR Service instances.

This article describes how to integrate Azure SignalR Service into your .NET Aspire applications, covering both hosting and client integration.

## Hosting integration

> The .NET Aspire Azure SignalR Service hosting integration models Azure SignalR resources as the following type:

Reviewer 2: Wouldn't this be correct?
```suggestion
The .NET Aspire Azure SignalR Service hosting integration models Azure SignalR resources as the following types:
```

// Continue configuring and run the app...
```

In the preceding example:

- An Azure SignalR Service resource named `signalr` is added.
- The `signalr` resource is referenced by the `api` project.
- The `api` project is referenced by the `webapp` project.

This architecture allows the `webapp` project to communicate with the `api` project, which in turn communicates with the Azure SignalR Service resource.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Calling `AddAzureSignalR` implicitly enables Azure provisioning support. Ensure your app host is configured with the appropriate Azure subscription and location. For more information, see [Local provisioning: Configuration](../azure/local-provisioning.md#configuration).

### Generated provisioning Bicep

When you add an Azure SignalR Service resource, .NET Aspire generates provisioning infrastructure using [Bicep](/azure/azure-resource-manager/bicep/overview). The generated Bicep includes defaults for location, SKU, and role assignments:

:::code language="bicep" source="../snippets/azure/AppHost/signalr.module.bicep":::

The generated Bicep provides a starting point and can be customized further.

### Customize provisioning infrastructure

> All .NET Aspire Azure resources are subclasses of the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.Azure.AzureProvisioningResource> type. This enables customization of the generated Bicep by providing a fluent API to configure the Azure resources—using the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.AzureProvisioningResourceExtensions.ConfigureInfrastructure``1(Aspire.Hosting.ApplicationModel.IResourceBuilder{``0},System.Action{Aspire.Hosting.Azure.AzureResourceInfrastructure})> API:

Reviewer 2: `—` feels misplaced to me? Is it really required?
```suggestion
All .NET Aspire Azure resources are subclasses of the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.Azure.AzureProvisioningResource> type. This enables customization of the generated Bicep by providing a fluent API to configure the Azure resources using the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.AzureProvisioningResourceExtensions.ConfigureInfrastructure``1(Aspire.Hosting.ApplicationModel.IResourceBuilder{``0},System.Action{Aspire.Hosting.Azure.AzureResourceInfrastructure})> API:
```

### Add an Azure SignalR Service emulator resource

The Azure SignalR Service emulator is a local development and testing tool that emulates the behavior of Azure SignalR Service. This emulator only supports [_Serverless_ mode](/azure/azure-signalr/concept-service-mode#serverless-mode), which requires a specific configuration when using the emulator.

To use the emulator, chain a call to the <xref:Aspire.Hosting.AzureSignalRExtensions.RunAsEmulator(Aspire.Hosting.ApplicationModel.IResourceBuilder{Aspire.Hosting.ApplicationModel.AzureSignalRResource},System.Action{Aspire.Hosting.ApplicationModel.IResourceBuilder{Aspire.Hosting.Azure.AzureSignalREmulatorResource}})> method:

```csharp
using Aspire.Hosting.Azure;

var builder = DistributedApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

var signalR = builder.AddAzureSignalR("signalr", AzureSignalRServiceMode.Serverless)
                     .RunAsEmulator();

builder.AddProject<Projects.ApiService>("apiService")
       .WithReference(signalR)
       .WaitFor(signalR);

// After adding all resources, run the app...
```

> In the preceding example, the `RunAsEmulator` method configures the Azure SignalR Service resource to run as an emulator. The emulator is based on the `mcr.microsoft.com/signalr/signalr-emulator:latest` container image. The emulator is started when the app host is run, and it will be stopped when the app host is stopped.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the preceding example, the `RunAsEmulator` method configures the Azure SignalR Service resource to run as an emulator. The emulator is based on the `mcr.microsoft.com/signalr/signalr-emulator:latest` container image. The emulator is started when the app host is run, and is stopped when the app host is stopped.
```

- <xref:Aspire.Hosting.ApplicationModel.AzureSignalRServiceMode.Default?displayProperty=nameWithType>
- <xref:Aspire.Hosting.ApplicationModel.AzureSignalRServiceMode.Serverless?displayProperty=nameWithType>

The _Default_ mode is the "default" configuration for Azure SignalR Service. Each mode has its own set of features and limitations. For more information, see [Azure SignalR Service modes](/azure/azure-signalr/concept-service-mode).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The Azure SignalR Service emulator only works in _Serverless_ mode and the `AddNamedAzureSignalR` method doesn't support _Serverless_ mode.

## Hub host integration

There isn't an official .NET Aspire Azure SignalR [_client integration_](../fundamentals/integrations-overview.md#client-integrations). However, there is limited support for similar experiences. In these scenarios, the Azure SignalR Service acts as a proxy between the server (where the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Hub> or <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Hub`1> are hosted) and the client (where the SignalR client is hosted). The Azure SignalR Service routes traffic between the server and client, allowing for real-time communication.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > It's important to disambiguate between .NET Aspire client integrations and the .NET SignalR client. SignalR exposes hubs—which act as a server-side concept—and SignalR clients connect to those hubs. The .NET projects that host SignalR hubs are where you integrate with .NET Aspire. The SignalR client is a separate library that connects to those hubs, in a different project.

Reviewer 2: A cool diagram might help explain this complex design.

Author: I agree, what would that look like though? Something that shows the following?

```mermaid
graph TD;
    A(.NET Aspire App Host Project) --> B(Azure SignalR Service<br>'Hosting Integration');
    A --> C(ASP.NET Core Minimal API Project<br>'Client Integration');
    A --> D(Frontend Project <br> 'SignalR client');
```

> There are two specific packages available for [.NET from the Azure team](https://github.com/Azure/azure-signalr) that enable scenarios such as managing the client connection to Azure SignalR Service, and hooking up to the Azure SignalR Service resource. To get started, install the [📦 Microsoft.Azure.SignalR](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.SignalR) NuGet package in the project hosting your SignalR hub.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure why you point out the "Azure team" here. That doesn't seem like relevant information. And this is all .NET, so why point that out too? Also, only one package is listed here, so why are two mentioned?

Author: Fixed

```csharp
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

builder.Services.AddSignalR()
                .AddNamedAzureSignalR("signalr");

var app = builder.Build();

app.MapHub<ChatHub>("/chat");

app.Run();
```

The `AddNamedAzureSignalR` method configures the project to use the Azure SignalR Service resource named `signalr`. The connection string is read from the configuration key `ConnectionStrings:signalr`, and additional settings are loaded from the `Azure:SignalR:signalr` configuration section.

> [!NOTE]
> If you're using the Azure SignalR emulator, you cannot use the `AddNamedAzureSignalR` method.

### Configure Azure SignalR Service in Serverless mode

If you're app host is using the Azure SignalR emulator, you'll also need to install the [📦 Microsoft.Azure.SignalR.Management](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.SignalR.Management) NuGet package.

### [.NET CLI](#tab/dotnet-cli)

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Microsoft.Azure.SignalR.Management
```

### [PackageReference](#tab/package-reference)

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Azure.SignalR.Management"
                  Version="*" />
```

---

> Azure SignalR _Serverless_ mode doesn't require a hub server to be running, which is why this mode is named "serverless". The Azure SignalR Service is responsible for maintaining client connections. Additionally, in this mode, you cannot use traditional <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Hub>, <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Hub`1>, or <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.IHubContext`1>. Instead, you have to [configure an upstream endpoint which is usually an Azure Function SignalR trigger](/azure/azure-signalr/concept-upstream). Consider the following diagram that illustrates the architecture of Azure SignalR Service in _Serverless_ mode:

Reviewer 2: Two things about this:
- I think this extra clause is unnecessary. It's kind of saying DUH to the reader.
- I feel like this is missing a little bit of context, maybe just because I'm a little unfamiliar with signalr?

```suggestion
Azure SignalR _Serverless_ mode doesn't require a hub server to be running. The Azure SignalR Service is responsible for maintaining client connections. Additionally, in this mode, you cannot use traditional SignalR Hubs, such as <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Hub>, <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Hub`1>, or <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.IHubContext`1>. Instead, [configure an upstream endpoint which is usually an Azure Function SignalR trigger](/azure/azure-signalr/concept-upstream). Consider the following diagram that illustrates the architecture of Azure SignalR Service in _Serverless_ mode:
```

       {
           options.ConnectionString = builder.Configuration.GetConnectionString("signalr");
       })
       .BuildServiceManager();
});

var app = builder.Build();

app.MapPost("/negotiate", async (string? userId, ServiceManager sm, CancellationToken token) =>
{
    // The creation of the ServiceHubContext is expensive, so it's recommended to 
    // only create it once per named context / per app run if possible.
    var context = await sm.CreateHubContextAsync("messages", token);
    
    var negotiateResponse = await context.NegotiateAsync(new NegotiationOptions
    {
        UserId = userId
    }, token);
    
    // The JSON serializer options need to be set to ignore null values, otherwise the
    // response will contain null values for the properties that are not set.
    // The .NET SignalR client will not be able to parse the response if the null values are present.
    // For more information, see https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/issues/60935.
    return Results.Json(negotiateResponse, new JsonSerializerOptions(JsonSerializerDefaults.Web)
    {
        DefaultIgnoreCondition = JsonIgnoreCondition.WhenWritingNull
    });
});

app.Run();
```

> The preceding code configures the Azure SignalR Service using the `ServiceManagerBuilder` class. You might have noticed that it doesn't call `AddSignalR` nor does it call `MapHub`—this is intentional, as _Serverless_ mode doesn't require one. The connection string is read from the configuration key `ConnectionStrings:signalr`. When using the emulator, only the HTTP endpoint is available. Within the app, you can use the `ServiceManager` instance to create a `ServiceHubContext`. The `ServiceHubContext` is used to broadcast messages and manage connections to clients.

Reviewer 2: Nit: I found this a bit complex. What about this?
```suggestion
The preceding code configures the Azure SignalR Service using the `ServiceManagerBuilder` class, but doesn't call `AddSignalR` or `MapHub`. These two extensions aren't required with _Serverless_ mode. The connection string is read from the configuration key `ConnectionStrings:signalr`. When using the emulator, only the HTTP endpoint is available. Within the app, you can use the `ServiceManager` instance to create a `ServiceHubContext`. The `ServiceHubContext` is used to broadcast messages and manage connections to clients.
```

Also, should this paragraph be split up? I feel like there are three unrelated things talked about here. Well they are related as in that's what the code is doing. However, you usually use a bullet list to talk about them.

---

> Azure SignalR _Serverless_ mode doesn't require a hub server to be running, which is why this mode is named "serverless". The Azure SignalR Service is responsible for maintaining client connections. Additionally, in this mode, your limited to broadcast only—meaning that messages can be broadcast from a `ServiceHubContext` but not a traditional <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Hub>, <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Hub`1>, or <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.IHubContext`1>. Consider the following diagram that illustrates the architecture of Azure SignalR Service in _Serverless_ mode:

Reviewer: `in this mode, your limited to broadcast only` - this is not accurate. In serverless mode, user could configure [upstream endpoint](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-signalr/concept-upstream) so that the upstream could handle messages from the clients. The upstream is usually a Azure Function SignalR trigger. Having `SignalR Client<->Azure SignalR emulator <-> Azure Function` works locally, however deploying to cloud Azure Function needs some additional work because Azure Function requires an app key code, e.g. `<endpoint>/runtime/webhooks/signalr/?code=xxx`, and that's why we don't use Azure Function as the sample.

var app = builder.Build();

app.MapPost("/negotiate", async (string? userId, ServiceManager sm, CancellationToken token) =>
{
    // The creation of the ServiceHubContext is expensive, so it's recommended to 
    // only create it once per named context / per app run if possible.

>     var context = await sm.CreateHubContextAsync("messages", token);

Reviewer: ```cs
var sm = new ServiceManagerBuilder()
       .WithOptions(options =>
       {
           options.ConnectionString = builder.Configuration.GetConnectionString("signalr");
       })
       .BuildServiceManager();

// The creation of the ServiceHubContext is expensive, so it's recommended to 
// only create it once per named context / per app run if possible.
var context = await sm.CreateHubContextAsync("messages", token);
app.MapPost("/negotiate", async (string? userId, CancellationToken token) =>
{

```

    
    NegotiationResponse negotiateResponse = await n.NegotiateAsync(new NegotiationOptions
    {
        UserId = userId,
        ClientType = ClientType.JavaScript,

>         HubName = "messages"

Reviewer: `NegotiationOptions` does not have these 2 properties?

Author: Fixed

    }, token);
    

>     return Results.Json(negotiateResponse, new JsonSerializerOptions(JsonSerializerDefaults.Web)

Reviewer: `Results.Ok(negotiateResponse)` is enough?

Author: No, there's a bug that prevents that from working in .NET: see https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/issues/60935
